Dear Krisna,
Ana and I both reviewed the document and we agree with your overall conclusion that you simply cannot trust the multivariate analyses. You don’t have enough cases (and it’s not clear either if the data are high quality either… we’d only be able to evaluate the quality if you had more data!). This degrees of freedom challenge is almost certainly contributing to your findings that own prices are elastic for some of these products (and general inconsistencies besides). From years of experience, we are very skeptical about these results.
Your descriptives are more interesting and potentially useful and I think the only thing to save here. The data are telling a story that manufactured kreteks (SKM) are on the down swing after 2018 (when many thought they were on a relentless increase!) and SKT is on the rise. Intuitively, we know that some smokers are switching but ultimately, these data won’t permit us to tease out this relationship more precisely.
Furthermore, we expect there is likely some “trading down” within categories, for example SKT I to SKT II, but we’re definitely not going to get at explaining those relationships with any precision either.
If there really were better monthly data over time, we could try to do this elasticity exercise but it looks like some of the key data are annual data divided evenly by 12 months, which gives us no price variation. What it does give us probably is more confusion about the relationship between HJE and HTP but we don’t really have enough information as you point out to do anything meaningful from this. It’s unfortunate because it might interesting and useful but even here the data scarcity is destroying this opportunity. In other words, your AVE measure is probably also problematic for all the same reasons.
So, bottom line, I would discard all the multivariate analysis and explain in a couple of paragraphs what you tried to do and why it didn’t work. But you can focus the main body of the report on the descriptive parts of your analysis. Sorry, I wish I had better counsel for you but I think that is where this project is based on these data.
We appreciate your efforts and patience. We feared this would be the case but we didn’t know until you tried.